#sidebar sidebar

BIRT parameter handling in !DataSets presents a few challenges.  Particularly when working with multi-select parameters.  
This function simplifies the use of parameters in BIRT ODA !DataSets.  
Using this function you no longer need to bind your parameters on a separate tab, 
and using multi-select parameters is as easy as writing some simple SQL.  
Finally, using this function you can use the same parameter multiple times in your query without having to 
re-bind the parameter.  

The following syntax within your query will bind the parameter name param_states to your query.  When using this 
do not use the parameter tab on the !DataSet editor.   
{{{
-- Bind to the param_states variables
select * from customers 
where 0=0 
/* BIND and state like $param_states */
}}}

If you are using Multi-Select parameters. Bind your query to a multi-select parameter and everything will work.
{{{
-- Bind using a multi-select statement
select * from customers 
where 0=0 
/* BIND and state in ($param_states) */
}}}


Finally, if you want to use the same parameter multiple times in your query, just use as needed.
{{{
-- Bind to the param_states variables
select * from customers 
where 0=0 
/* BIND and state in ($param_states) */
UNION
select * from customers 
where 0=0 
/* BIND and state in ($param_states) */
}}}

NOTES: 
 * This control uses true JDBC parameter binding, it dramatically reduces the risk of SQL Injection attacks.
 * When using this control, the BIND comments are ignored when working in the !DataSet editor. 
 * If a parameters value is NULL, the /* BIND comments */ are left as comments.
 * If the datatype is string and the value is "null" the expression will be left as a comment.
