#summary Welcome to the BIRT Script Library Project.
#sidebar sidebar

= Introduction =

BIRT extension points allow you to customize your report development environment.  Two of the most powerful and easiest extension points are dedicated to the creation of new functions in BIRT.  The aggregate extension point and script function extension point allow developers to create new functions that are integrated into the report development UI.

This project provides an example of how to create new BIRT function extensions.  In addition, the functions that have been created will have real world use in your projects.  

This project is brought to you by Innovent Solutions through a generous donation of code from Blackboard, Inc.  If you have questions or are interested in contributing please contact us at info(at)innoventsolutions(dot)com and we will get back to you.

= Details =

This project creates a single Eclipse plugin project.  The binary for the project can be downloaded (needs to be setup), or the project source can be checked out from our Google Code repository.

= Extensions =
There are two main sections to this project: the aggregate functions and the script extensions.  
== Aggregates ==
Aggregate functions are performed across a number of rows.  Aggregate extensions show up in the Aggregate Editor and fully support all of the grouping and filtering options that the standard aggregates support.
=== ConcatenateUnique ===
=== CountUnique ===

== Script Functions ==
Script functions show up in the report designer in a number of places.  On the Script tab, when you look in the palette view, you will find any Script extensions showing up on the Palette view, in the BIRT Functions area.  

All of the functions for this project are placed under a CustomFunctions category.  

=== AppendLibraryContent ===
=== BindParameters ===
=== BirtLogger ===
=== DisplayParameters ===
=== SetChartPalette ===
=== TextWrap ===
=== ThrowException ===
